---
layout: base
title: download
---

h1. Download

You will first need to install a version of R (see below), followed by several dependent R-packages, and finally the connectir R-package.

h2. R

<div class="prepend-1">

h3. Windows

If you have Windows, please contact me. I am not sure what the exact installation instructions would be for Windows but it should be possible.

h3. Redhat and CentOS

Install the "academic version of Revolution R":http://www.revolutionanalytics.com/downloads/free-academic.php. This version of R is compiled with Intel's MKL, which provides parallel processing for matrix algebra operations even speeds up matrix algebra for one processor.

h3. Debian and Ubuntu

Revolution R should be available through your package manager.

h3. Other Versions of Linux

Install the "standard version of R":http://cran.r-project.org/mirrors.html.

h3. MacOSX

Install the "standard version of R":http://cran.r-project.org/mirrors.html. Maybe someone can confirm this: on older versions of OSX (pre Snow Leopard) you can open the application 'R' or 'R64' with the former being a 32-bit version of R. Make sure that you open the 64-bit version of R. In later versions, both applications are the 64-bit version of R.

</div>

h2. Package Dependencies

Open up the terminal and open R or Revo64 or R64, depending on your system. Now enter the following commands in the R prompt.

{% highlight r %}
install.packages(c("foreach", "doMC", "multicore", "getopt", "optparse"))
install.packages("plyr", dependencies=TRUE)
install.packages(c("Rcpp", "RcppArmadillo", "inline"), dependencies=TRUE)
install.packages(c("bigmemory", "biganalytics"), \
	repos="http://R-Forge.R-project.org")
{% endhighlight %}

<div class="prepend-1">

h3. Redhat, CentOS, Debian, Ubuntu, and MacOSX

Install bigalgebra as you did the other packages.


h3. All Other Systems

You will need to first install the Intel MKL library. A free academic version is available for linux systems.

</div>


h2. Connectir and Related Packages

I am developing connectir and 2 related packages (niftir and big.extensions). You can install all 3 as follows:








